src/bridge/settings/openedx/mfe/slot_config/Readme.md, before:

# Plugin Slots Overrides

This directory contains configuration for **MFE plugin slots** used to override default components in Open edX MFEs. These overrides allow us to customize the user experience and implement platform-specific requirements.

---

## Overview

Plugin slots provide extension points in Open edX MFEs where we can replace or augment existing components.
This documentation captures:

* **Which slots are overridden**
* **Why the override is needed**
* **Implementation details**
* **Screenshots/examples (if applicable)**

---

## Overrides

| Name / Slot ID                                                                 | Location (MFE)                         | Purpose                                                                                                  | Notes / Screenshots / Code location                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------- |----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`footer_slot`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-footer/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/FooterSlot) / [`studio_footer_slot`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-footer/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/StudioFooterSlot)                                      | All MFEs                               | Replaces default footer with our customized footer component.                                            | ![](./images/footer.png) — See [`Footer.jsx`](./Footer.jsx)                                                                        |
| `ForceLoginRedirect` (component)                                          | MITx Online / MIT Learn and xPRO Learning MFE  | Redirects unauthorized users from the learning MFE to the login page.                                    | Search `ForceLoginRedirect` in [`Footer.jsx`](./Footer.jsx)                                                                        | |
| [`learning_user_menu_slot`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/LearningUserMenuSlot) / [`desktop_user_menu_slot`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/DesktopMainMenuSlot)                      | All MFEs                               | Updates header menu links based on application (defined in `userMenu` object in config files).           | ![](./images/header_links.png) Links defined in `common-mfe-config.env.jsx` files                                                  |
| [`progress_certificate_status_slot`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/ProgressCertificateStatusSlot)                                         | xPRO Learning MFE Progress Page        | Replaces the certificate status text in MITxPRO Learning MFE Progress Page.                              | ![](./images/certificate_status.png)                                                                                               |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.course_breadcrumbs.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/CourseBreadcrumbsSlot)                      | MITx Online / MIT Learn Learning MFE    | Shows breadcrumbs navigation (hidden by default).                                                        | ![](./images/breadcrump.png)                                                                                                       |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.sequence_navigation.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/SequenceNavigationSlot)                     | MITx Online / MIT Learn Learning MFE    | Shows sequence navigation bar (hidden by default).                                                       | ![](./images/sequence_navigation.png)                                                                                              |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.course_outline_sidebar.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/CourseOutlineSidebarSlot)                  | MITx Online / MIT Learn Learning MFE    | Hides the default course outline sidebar.                                                                | ![](./images/course_outline_sidebar.png)                                                                                           |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.course_outline_sidebar_trigger.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/CourseOutlineSidebarTriggerSlot) <br> [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.course_outline_mobile_sidebar_trigger.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/CourseOutlineMobileSidebarTriggerSlot) | MITx Online / MIT Learn Learning MFE    | Hides default course outline sidebar trigger button.                                                     | ![](./images/course_outline_sidebar_trigger.png)                                                                                   |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.unit_title.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/UnitTitleSlot)                               | MITx Online / MIT Learn Learning MFE    | Hides navigation arrow buttons from the unit title slot; replaced with custom implementation.            | Before: ![](./images/unit_title_slot_before.png) After: ![](./images/unit_title_slot.png)                                          |
| [`widget_sidebar_slot`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-app-learner-dashboard/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/WidgetSidebarSlot)                                                       | MITx Learner Dashboard                 | Hides the “Looking for a new challenge” banner in learner dashboard.                                     | ![](./images/looking_for_challenge.png)                                                                                            |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.layout.header_learning_course_info.v1`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/CourseInfoSlot)               | MITx Online / MIT Learn MFEs                         | Hides course organization and number from UAI courses in the Learning Header.                            | Before: ![](./images/course_num_org_hide_before.png) After: ![](./images/course_num_org_hide_after.png)                            |
| [`externalLinkUrlOverrides`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-platform/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#overriding-default-external-links)                                                  | MITx Online / MIT Learn Proctoring Info Panel       | Overrides “Review instructions and system requirements” link → MITx Online / MIT Learn Zendesk Helpdesk. | Search `externalLinkUrlOverrides` in [`mitxonline/common-mfe-config.env.jsx`](./mitxonline/common-mfe-config.env.jsx)              |
| `mitx-styles.scss`                                                              | MITx Residential Learner Dashboard     | Hides information banner in dashboard cards via CSS overrides.                                           | Before: ![](./images/card_banner_before.png) After: ![](./images/card_banner_after.png) [`./mitx-styles.scss`](./mitx-styles.scss) |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.layout.header_learning_user_menu_toggle.v1`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/LearningUserMenuToggleSlot) <br> [`org.openedx.frontend.layout.header_desktop_user_menu_toggle.v1`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/DesktopUserMenuToggleSlot) | MITx Online / MIT Learn Header | Display the fullname instead of username in the user menu trigger                                        | Learning Header ![](./images/learning_usermenu_trigger.png) <br> Desktop Header ![](./images/desktop_usermenu_trigger.png)         |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.layout.header_logo.v1`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/LogoSlot)                                                                   | MITx Online / MIT Learn Header | Redirect users to MIT Learn dashboard for UAI courses and MITx Online for other courses.                 |                                                                                                                                    |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.layout.header_desktop_secondary_menu.v1`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/DesktopSecondaryMenuSlot)                                                                   | MITx Online / MIT Learn Header | Displays Help and Dashboard button in the MFEs where Desktop Header is used.                             | ![](./images/desktop_header_secondary_menu.png)                                                                                    |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.layout.header_learning_help.v1`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/LearningHelpSlot)                                                                      | MITx Online / MIT Learn Header | Displays Help and Dashboard button in the MFEs where Learning Header is used.                            | ![](./images/learning_help_slot.png)                                                                                               |
| mitxonline-styles.scss | MITx Online / MIT Learn Header | Matches the style of MITx Online / MIT Learn Header with MIT Learn Marketing Site | Header Desktop View ![](./images/header_desktop_view.png) Header Mobile View ![](./images/header_mobile_view.png) |


---

## How to Add or Update an Override

1. Identify the slot in the relevant MFE.
2. Implement the override in this directory (`slot_config`).
3. Update this `README.md`:

   * Add a row to the table above.
   * Include a short description of **why** the override exists.
   * Add screenshots (optional but recommended).

---

Commit message:

feat: Added support to make AIDrawer load in slot with existing sidebars

src/bridge/settings/openedx/mfe/slot_config/Readme.md, after:

# Plugin Slots Overrides

This directory contains configuration for **MFE plugin slots** used to override default components in Open edX MFEs. These overrides allow us to customize the user experience and implement platform-specific requirements.

---

## Overview

Plugin slots provide extension points in Open edX MFEs where we can replace or augment existing components.
This documentation captures:

* **Which slots are overridden**
* **Why the override is needed**
* **Implementation details**
* **Screenshots/examples (if applicable)**

---

## Overrides

| Name / Slot ID                                                                 | Location (MFE)                         | Purpose                                                                                                  | Notes / Screenshots / Code location                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------- |----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`footer_slot`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-footer/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/FooterSlot) / [`studio_footer_slot`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-footer/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/StudioFooterSlot)                                      | All MFEs                               | Replaces default footer with our customized footer component.                                            | ![](./images/footer.png) — See [`Footer.jsx`](./Footer.jsx)                                                                        |
| `ForceLoginRedirect` (component)                                          | MITx Online / MIT Learn and xPRO Learning MFE  | Redirects unauthorized users from the learning MFE to the login page.                                    | Search `ForceLoginRedirect` in [`Footer.jsx`](./Footer.jsx)                                                                        | |
| [`learning_user_menu_slot`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/LearningUserMenuSlot) / [`desktop_user_menu_slot`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/DesktopMainMenuSlot)                      | All MFEs                               | Updates header menu links based on application (defined in `userMenu` object in config files).           | ![](./images/header_links.png) Links defined in `common-mfe-config.env.jsx` files                                                  |
| [`progress_certificate_status_slot`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/ProgressCertificateStatusSlot)                                         | xPRO Learning MFE Progress Page        | Replaces the certificate status text in MITxPRO Learning MFE Progress Page.                              | ![](./images/certificate_status.png)                                                                                               |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.course_breadcrumbs.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/CourseBreadcrumbsSlot)                      | MITx Online / MIT Learn Learning MFE    | Shows breadcrumbs navigation (hidden by default).                                                        | ![](./images/breadcrump.png)                                                                                                       |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.sequence_navigation.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/SequenceNavigationSlot)                     | MITx Online / MIT Learn Learning MFE    | Shows sequence navigation bar (hidden by default).                                                       | ![](./images/sequence_navigation.png)                                                                                              |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.course_outline_sidebar.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/CourseOutlineSidebarSlot)                  | MITx Online / MIT Learn Learning MFE    | Hides the default course outline sidebar.                                                                | ![](./images/course_outline_sidebar.png)                                                                                           |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.course_outline_sidebar_trigger.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/CourseOutlineSidebarTriggerSlot) <br> [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.course_outline_mobile_sidebar_trigger.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/CourseOutlineMobileSidebarTriggerSlot) | MITx Online / MIT Learn Learning MFE    | Hides default course outline sidebar trigger button.                                                     | ![](./images/course_outline_sidebar_trigger.png)                                                                                   |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.unit_title.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/UnitTitleSlot)                               | MITx Online / MIT Learn Learning MFE    | Hides navigation arrow buttons from the unit title slot; replaced with custom implementation.            | Before: ![](./images/unit_title_slot_before.png) After: ![](./images/unit_title_slot.png)                                          |
| [`widget_sidebar_slot`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-app-learner-dashboard/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/WidgetSidebarSlot)                                                       | MITx Learner Dashboard                 | Hides the “Looking for a new challenge” banner in learner dashboard.                                     | ![](./images/looking_for_challenge.png)                                                                                            |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.layout.header_learning_course_info.v1`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/CourseInfoSlot)               | MITx Online / MIT Learn MFEs                         | Hides course organization and number from UAI courses in the Learning Header.                            | Before: ![](./images/course_num_org_hide_before.png) After: ![](./images/course_num_org_hide_after.png)                            |
| [`externalLinkUrlOverrides`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-platform/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#overriding-default-external-links)                                                  | MITx Online / MIT Learn Proctoring Info Panel       | Overrides “Review instructions and system requirements” link → MITx Online / MIT Learn Zendesk Helpdesk. | Search `externalLinkUrlOverrides` in [`mitxonline/common-mfe-config.env.jsx`](./mitxonline/common-mfe-config.env.jsx)              |
| `mitx-styles.scss`                                                              | MITx Residential Learner Dashboard     | Hides information banner in dashboard cards via CSS overrides.                                           | Before: ![](./images/card_banner_before.png) After: ![](./images/card_banner_after.png) [`./mitx-styles.scss`](./mitx-styles.scss) |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.layout.header_learning_user_menu_toggle.v1`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/LearningUserMenuToggleSlot) <br> [`org.openedx.frontend.layout.header_desktop_user_menu_toggle.v1`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/DesktopUserMenuToggleSlot) | MITx Online / MIT Learn Header | Display the fullname instead of username in the user menu trigger                                        | Learning Header ![](./images/learning_usermenu_trigger.png) <br> Desktop Header ![](./images/desktop_usermenu_trigger.png)         |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.layout.header_logo.v1`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/LogoSlot)                                                                   | MITx Online / MIT Learn Header | Redirect users to MIT Learn dashboard for UAI courses and MITx Online for other courses.                 |                                                                                                                                    |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.layout.header_desktop_secondary_menu.v1`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/DesktopSecondaryMenuSlot)                                                                   | MITx Online / MIT Learn Header | Displays Help and Dashboard button in the MFEs where Desktop Header is used.                             | ![](./images/desktop_header_secondary_menu.png)                                                                                    |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.layout.header_learning_help.v1`](https://github.com/openedx/frontend-component-header/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/LearningHelpSlot)                                                                      | MITx Online / MIT Learn Header | Displays Help and Dashboard button in the MFEs where Learning Header is used.                            | ![](./images/learning_help_slot.png)                                                                                               |
| [`org.openedx.frontend.learning.notifications_discussions_sidebar.v1`](https://github.com/mitodl/frontend-app-learning/tree/master/src/plugin-slots/NotificationsDiscussionsSidebarSlot) | MITx Online / MIT Learn Learning MFE | Replaces the default notifications/discussions sidebar with a coordinated sidebar that manages both the existing sidebar and the AskTim Chatbot. The AskTim Chatbot opens in the sidebar slot when triggered via postMessage, and automatically coordinates with the existing sidebar to ensure only one is visible at a time. | See [`SidebarAIDrawerCoordinator.jsx`](./SidebarAIDrawerCoordinator.jsx) and [`AIDrawerManagerSidebar.jsx`](./AIDrawerManagerSidebar.jsx). The coordinator listens for `smoot-design::ai-drawer-open` and `smoot-design::tutor-drawer-open` messages to trigger the AI drawer. |
| mitxonline-styles.scss | MITx Online / MIT Learn Header | Matches the style of MITx Online / MIT Learn Header with MIT Learn Marketing Site | Header Desktop View ![](./images/header_desktop_view.png) Header Mobile View ![](./images/header_mobile_view.png) |


---

## How to Add or Update an Override

1. Identify the slot in the relevant MFE.
2. Implement the override in this directory (`slot_config`).
3. Update this `README.md`:

   * Add a row to the table above.
   * Include a short description of **why** the override exists.
   * Add screenshots (optional but recommended).

---
