#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.11
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile requirements.in
#
alembic==1.13.1
    # via flask-migrate
amqp==5.2.0
    # via kombu
apache-superset[cors,prophet,thumbnails]==3.0.2
    # via -r requirements.in
apispec[yaml]==6.3.1
    # via
    #   apispec
    #   flask-appbuilder
attrs==23.2.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   outcome
    #   referencing
    #   trio
authlib==1.3.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   flask-oidc
babel==2.14.0
    # via flask-babel
backoff==2.2.1
    # via apache-superset
bcrypt==4.1.2
    # via paramiko
billiard==4.2.0
    # via celery
brotli==1.1.0
    # via flask-compress
cachelib==0.10.2
    # via flask-caching
celery==5.3.6
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   celery-redbeat
celery-redbeat==2.2.0
    # via -r requirements.in
certifi==2023.11.17
    # via
    #   requests
    #   selenium
cffi==1.16.0
    # via
    #   cryptography
    #   pynacl
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
    # via requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   celery
    #   click-didyoumean
    #   click-option-group
    #   click-plugins
    #   click-repl
    #   flask
    #   flask-appbuilder
click-didyoumean==0.3.0
    # via celery
click-option-group==0.5.6
    # via apache-superset
click-plugins==1.1.1
    # via celery
click-repl==0.3.0
    # via celery
cmdstanpy==1.2.0
    # via prophet
colorama==0.4.6
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   flask-appbuilder
contourpy==1.2.0
    # via matplotlib
convertdate==2.4.0
    # via
    #   holidays
    #   prophet
cron-descriptor==1.4.0
    # via apache-superset
croniter==2.0.1
    # via apache-superset
cryptography==41.0.7
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   authlib
    #   paramiko
cycler==0.12.1
    # via matplotlib
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via python3-openid
deprecated==1.2.14
    # via limits
deprecation==2.1.0
    # via apache-superset
dnspython==2.4.2
    # via email-validator
duckdb==0.9.2
    # via -r requirements.in
email-validator==1.3.1
    # via flask-appbuilder
ephem==4.1.5
    # via lunarcalendar
flask==2.3.3
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   flask-appbuilder
    #   flask-babel
    #   flask-caching
    #   flask-compress
    #   flask-cors
    #   flask-jwt-extended
    #   flask-limiter
    #   flask-login
    #   flask-migrate
    #   flask-oidc
    #   flask-openid
    #   flask-sqlalchemy
    #   flask-wtf
flask-appbuilder==4.3.10
    # via apache-superset
flask-babel==2.0.0
    # via flask-appbuilder
flask-caching==2.1.0
    # via apache-superset
flask-compress==1.14
    # via apache-superset
flask-cors==4.0.0
    # via apache-superset
flask-jwt-extended==4.6.0
    # via flask-appbuilder
flask-limiter==3.5.0
    # via flask-appbuilder
flask-login==0.6.3
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   flask-appbuilder
flask-migrate==3.1.0
    # via apache-superset
flask-oidc==2.1.1
    # via -r requirements.in
flask-openid==1.3.0
    # via -r requirements.in
flask-sqlalchemy==2.5.1
    # via
    #   flask-appbuilder
    #   flask-migrate
flask-talisman==1.1.0
    # via apache-superset
flask-wtf==1.2.1
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   flask-appbuilder
fonttools==4.47.2
    # via matplotlib
func-timeout==4.3.5
    # via apache-superset
geographiclib==2.0
    # via geopy
geopy==2.4.1
    # via apache-superset
greenlet==3.0.3
    # via sqlalchemy
gunicorn==21.2.0
    # via apache-superset
h11==0.14.0
    # via wsproto
hashids==1.3.1
    # via apache-superset
hijri-converter==2.3.1
    # via holidays
holidays==0.40
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   prophet
humanize==4.9.0
    # via apache-superset
hvac==2.1.0
    # via -r requirements.in
idna==3.6
    # via
    #   email-validator
    #   requests
    #   trio
importlib-metadata==7.0.1
    # via apache-superset
importlib-resources==6.1.1
    # via limits
isodate==0.6.1
    # via apache-superset
itsdangerous==2.1.2
    # via
    #   flask
    #   flask-wtf
jinja2==3.1.3
    # via
    #   flask
    #   flask-babel
jsonschema==4.20.0
    # via flask-appbuilder
jsonschema-specifications==2023.12.1
    # via jsonschema
kiwisolver==1.4.5
    # via matplotlib
kombu==5.3.5
    # via celery
korean-lunar-calendar==0.3.1
    # via holidays
limits==3.7.0
    # via flask-limiter
lunarcalendar==0.0.9
    # via prophet
mako==1.3.0
    # via
    #   alembic
    #   apache-superset
markdown==3.5.2
    # via apache-superset
markdown-it-py==3.0.0
    # via rich
markupsafe==2.1.3
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   mako
    #   werkzeug
    #   wtforms
marshmallow==3.20.2
    # via
    #   flask-appbuilder
    #   marshmallow-sqlalchemy
marshmallow-sqlalchemy==0.30.0
    # via flask-appbuilder
matplotlib==3.8.2
    # via prophet
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via markdown-it-py
msgpack==1.0.7
    # via apache-superset
nh3==0.2.15
    # via apache-superset
numpy==1.26.3
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   cmdstanpy
    #   contourpy
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
    #   prophet
    #   pyarrow
    #   stanio
ordered-set==4.1.0
    # via flask-limiter
outcome==1.3.0.post0
    # via trio
packaging==23.2
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   apispec
    #   deprecation
    #   gunicorn
    #   limits
    #   marshmallow
    #   matplotlib
pandas==1.5.3
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   cmdstanpy
    #   prophet
paramiko==3.4.0
    # via sshtunnel
parsedatetime==2.6
    # via apache-superset
pgsanity==0.2.9
    # via apache-superset
pillow==10.2.0
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   matplotlib
polyline==2.0.1
    # via apache-superset
prison==0.2.1
    # via flask-appbuilder
prompt-toolkit==3.0.43
    # via click-repl
prophet==1.1.5
    # via apache-superset
psycopg2==2.9.9
    # via -r requirements.in
pyarrow==14.0.2
    # via apache-superset
pycparser==2.21
    # via cffi
pygments==2.17.2
    # via rich
pyjwt==2.8.0
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   flask-appbuilder
    #   flask-jwt-extended
pymeeus==0.5.12
    # via convertdate
pynacl==1.5.0
    # via paramiko
pyparsing==3.1.1
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   matplotlib
pysocks==1.7.1
    # via urllib3
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   celery
    #   celery-redbeat
    #   croniter
    #   flask-appbuilder
    #   holidays
    #   lunarcalendar
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
    #   prophet
    #   trino
python-dotenv==1.0.0
    # via apache-superset
python-geohash==0.8.5
    # via apache-superset
python3-openid==3.2.0
    # via flask-openid
pytz==2023.3.post1
    # via
    #   croniter
    #   flask-babel
    #   lunarcalendar
    #   pandas
    #   trino
pyyaml==6.0.1
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   apispec
redis==4.6.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   apache-superset
    #   celery-redbeat
referencing==0.32.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
requests==2.31.0
    # via
    #   flask-oidc
    #   hvac
    #   trino
rich==13.7.0
    # via flask-limiter
rpds-py==0.16.2
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
selenium==4.16.0
    # via apache-superset
setuptools-git==1.2
    # via prophet
shortid==0.1.2
    # via apache-superset
simplejson==3.19.2
    # via apache-superset
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   isodate
    #   prison
    #   python-dateutil
    #   wtforms-json
slack-sdk==3.26.1
    # via apache-superset
sniffio==1.3.0
    # via trio
sortedcontainers==2.4.0
    # via trio
sqlalchemy==1.4.51
    # via
    #   alembic
    #   apache-superset
    #   flask-appbuilder
    #   flask-sqlalchemy
    #   marshmallow-sqlalchemy
    #   sqlalchemy-utils
sqlalchemy-utils==0.41.1
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   flask-appbuilder
sqlparse==0.4.4
    # via apache-superset
sshtunnel==0.4.0
    # via apache-superset
stanio==0.4.0
    # via cmdstanpy
tabulate==0.9.0
    # via apache-superset
tenacity==8.2.3
    # via celery-redbeat
tqdm==4.66.1
    # via
    #   cmdstanpy
    #   prophet
trino==0.327.0
    # via -r requirements.in
trio==0.23.2
    # via
    #   selenium
    #   trio-websocket
trio-websocket==0.11.1
    # via selenium
typing-extensions==4.9.0
    # via
    #   alembic
    #   apache-superset
    #   flask-limiter
    #   limits
tzdata==2023.4
    # via celery
tzlocal==5.2
    # via trino
urllib3[socks]==2.1.0
    # via
    #   requests
    #   selenium
vine==5.1.0
    # via
    #   amqp
    #   celery
    #   kombu
wcwidth==0.2.13
    # via prompt-toolkit
werkzeug==2.3.8
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   flask
    #   flask-appbuilder
    #   flask-jwt-extended
    #   flask-login
wheel==0.42.0
    # via prophet
wrapt==1.16.0
    # via deprecated
wsproto==1.2.0
    # via trio-websocket
wtforms==3.1.2
    # via
    #   apache-superset
    #   flask-appbuilder
    #   flask-wtf
    #   wtforms-json
wtforms-json==0.3.5
    # via apache-superset
xlsxwriter==3.0.9
    # via apache-superset
zipp==3.17.0
    # via importlib-metadata

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools
