src/ol_infrastructure/applications/edxapp/MEILISEARCH.md, before:

# Meilisearch Setup

## Pulumi Configs

```yaml
  meilisearch:enabled: "true"
  meilisearch:domain: <A public domain that makes sense for the env>
  meilisearch:replica_count: 1 # must be 1
  meilisearch:pv_size: 100Gi
  meilisearch:cpu_request: "250m"
  meilisearch:memory_request: "4Gi"
  meilisearch:memory_limit: "4Gi"

## SOPS secrets

```yaml
meilisearch_master_key: <See below>
meilisearch_api_key: <See below>
```

For the `meilisearch_master_key` I just use a random string from a shell alias I have: `pwgen -s -B -1 64 4`. Anything will work as long as it is at least 16 bytes. More is better, of course.

This is a pain but there isn't a way around it. For `meilisearch_api_key`, you first need to provision the meilisearch instance and have it up and running. Firstly, shell into the running meilisearch-0 pod:
```bash
kubectl exec -it -n mitxonline-openedx meilisearch-0 -- sh
```
Then you need to curl localhost using the `meilisearch_master_key` that you generated earlier, and pull down a short list of default keys that the meilisearch instance provisioned for itself on the first startup. The data is JSON.
```
curl -X GET http://localhost:7700/keys  -H "Authorization: Bearer <YOUR MASTER KEY>" -H "Content-Type: application/json"
<A bunch of JSON>
```
Run that JSON through `jq` to make it readable and you should see an entry in the `results: []` list like this:
```
    {
      "name": "Default Admin API Key",
      "description": "Use it for anything that is not a search operation. Caution! Do not expose it on a public frontend",
      "key": "<Big long hex number>",
      "uid": "b96ad989-66cb-49ca-ae15-475fd7f9a676",
      "actions": [
        "search"
      ],
      "indexes": [
        "*"
      ],
      "expiresAt": null,
      "createdAt": "2026-01-27T14:50:39.011505326Z",
      "updatedAt": "2026-01-27T14:50:39.011505326Z"
    },
```
It is important that you use "Default Admin API Key" and not some other API key that is listed. This one has the right permissions. Copy the `key` and that is the value for `meilisearch_api_key` in the SOPS secrets.

## Reindex Data
After you have the meilisearch instance up and running, you need to reindex all the data from the Open edX platform. This is done by running a management command on the CMS. You can do this by shelling into the CMS pod and running the command like so:
```bash
# Shell into CMS Pod
kubectl exec -it -n mitxonline-openedx <cms-pod-name> -- bash
# Verify that your environment is setup to use meilisearch
grep -iR MEILISEARCH ../config/
../config/cms.env.yml:MEILISEARCH_MASTER_KEY: <The master key you generated earlier>
../config/cms.env.yml:MEILISEARCH_API_KEY: <The API key you pulled from the meilisearch instance>
../config/cms.env.yml:MEILISEARCH_ENABLED: true
../config/cms.env.yml:MEILISEARCH_URL: http://meilisearch:7700
../config/cms.env.yml:MEILISEARCH_PUBLIC_URL: https://<your-meilisearch-domain>
# Run the reindex management command
./manage.py cms reindex_studio --experimental
```
Depending on how much content you have, it could be hours.

Commit message:

Initial commit of meilisearch master keys. api_keys are still unknown at this time.

src/ol_infrastructure/applications/edxapp/MEILISEARCH.md, after:

# Meilisearch Setup

## Pulumi Configs

```yaml
  meilisearch:enabled: "true"
  meilisearch:enabled: "true"
  meilisearch:domain: <A public domain that makes sense for the env>
  meilisearch:replica_count: 1 # must be 1
  meilisearch:pv_size: 100Gi
  meilisearch:cpu_request: "250m"
  meilisearch:memory_request: "4Gi"
  meilisearch:memory_limit: "4Gi"
```

The difference between `deploy` and `enabled`. Deploy means "deploy the helm chart" whereas enabled means "enable meilisearch integration in the Open edX platform". You can deploy the chart but not enable it in Open edX if you want to test things out first.

## SOPS secrets

```yaml
meilisearch_master_key: <See below>
meilisearch_api_key: <See below>
```

For the `meilisearch_master_key` I just use a random string from a shell alias I have: `pwgen -s -B -1 64 4`. Anything will work as long as it is at least 16 bytes. More is better, of course.

This is a pain but there isn't a way around it. For `meilisearch_api_key`, you first need to provision the meilisearch instance and have it up and running. Firstly, shell into the running meilisearch-0 pod:
```bash
kubectl exec -it -n mitxonline-openedx meilisearch-0 -- sh
```
Then you need to curl localhost using the `meilisearch_master_key` that you generated earlier, and pull down a short list of default keys that the meilisearch instance provisioned for itself on the first startup. The data is JSON.
```
curl -X GET http://localhost:7700/keys  -H "Authorization: Bearer <YOUR MASTER KEY>" -H "Content-Type: application/json"
<A bunch of JSON>
```
Run that JSON through `jq` to make it readable and you should see an entry in the `results: []` list like this:
```
    {
      "name": "Default Admin API Key",
      "description": "Use it for anything that is not a search operation. Caution! Do not expose it on a public frontend",
      "key": "<Big long hex number>",
      "uid": "b96ad989-66cb-49ca-ae15-475fd7f9a676",
      "actions": [
        "search"
      ],
      "indexes": [
        "*"
      ],
      "expiresAt": null,
      "createdAt": "2026-01-27T14:50:39.011505326Z",
      "updatedAt": "2026-01-27T14:50:39.011505326Z"
    },
```
It is important that you use "Default Admin API Key" and not some other API key that is listed. This one has the right permissions. Copy the `key` and that is the value for `meilisearch_api_key` in the SOPS secrets.

## Reindex Data
After you have the meilisearch instance up and running, you need to reindex all the data from the Open edX platform. This is done by running a management command on the CMS. You can do this by shelling into the CMS pod and running the command like so:
```bash
# Shell into CMS Pod
kubectl exec -it -n mitxonline-openedx <cms-pod-name> -- bash
# Verify that your environment is setup to use meilisearch
grep -iR MEILISEARCH ../config/
../config/cms.env.yml:MEILISEARCH_MASTER_KEY: <The master key you generated earlier>
../config/cms.env.yml:MEILISEARCH_API_KEY: <The API key you pulled from the meilisearch instance>
../config/cms.env.yml:MEILISEARCH_ENABLED: true
../config/cms.env.yml:MEILISEARCH_URL: http://meilisearch:7700
../config/cms.env.yml:MEILISEARCH_PUBLIC_URL: https://<your-meilisearch-domain>
# Run the reindex management command
./manage.py cms reindex_studio --experimental
```
Depending on how much content you have, it could be hours.
